[Music]
hi they're planning a vacay booking a
flight can often set you back quite a
bit but with airports only making a
small portion of their money per
passenger how are they making the big
bucks well let's go behind the scenes to
learn the sneaky ways airports are
cashing in big time and it's not from
all those irresistible Sinha bonds on
every corner don't forget to click the
subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side of life
lax Heathrow Airport Dubai International
Airport these airports are among the
busiest and largest in the world so it's
no surprise that these businesses are
making the big bucks tick London's
Heathrow Airport this Airport is
privately owned and is the busiest of
its kind as opposed to many other
airports that are partially or
completely owned by the government this
means that Heathrow runs entirely on
profit and is a money-making machine
making most of its dough from passengers
nearly 650 flights come in and out of
this Airport daily many carrying cargo
along with passengers how many
passengers is that a year you ask a
whopping 78 million wow that's a lot of
jet-setters ok so how much money does it
take to run a commercial airport like
Heathrow get ready for this one billion
four hundred and eighty five million six
hundred fifty thousand bucks
give or take this includes the money
they pay their employees as well as
utility bills and such which can rack up
that massive number to break even
II throw would have to receive $19 per
passenger but this money doesn't just
come from the ticket they buy this $19
also accounts for how much money a
passenger spends on baggage and other
airport services but how do airports get
people to spend money on these extras
there are lots of sneaky things airports
do to get your hard-earned cash
vendors within Heathrow Airport there
are hundreds of employees but not all of
them work exclusively for the airport
Heathrow houses many businesses
restaurants air traffic control car
rental companies gift shops and more
these businesses give the company a
share of their profits however
restaurants and gift shops in airports
are notorious for being overpriced and
they're giving a fair share of their
profits to the airport not surprisingly
these vendors are strategically placed
especially in high-traffic airports to
make sure you're spending as much money
as possible this tricky placement is
clearly seen at Heathrow in many cases
passengers have to walk through an array
of duty-free shops to get from one
terminal to another another trick the
airports use is not announcing flight
gate numbers until 45 to 90 minutes
before the plane takes off that way
people congregate in these middle areas
between shops as they wait to find out
their gate number this boarding method
isn't as common in the u.s. very sneaky
Heathrow very sneaky non-aviation land
leases ever notice that there are rental
car parking lots and other clumps of
shops close to the airport these places
experience lots of business thanks to
the airport because of this airports can
cash in on the land leases these places
occupy Kijang parking services if you
can't get one of your friends to drop
you off at the airport you may very well
have to pay to leave your car there over
the course of your trip these attached
Lots typically charge you per night and
it can add up pretty fast
fillings Helsinki Airport boasts 13,000
parking spots landing and departure fees
airports make a lot of their money from
the flights that land there typically
airlines pay airports nine thousand five
hundred dollars per flight to land but
this amount can vary depending on the
size and type of aircraft what does this
money pay for gate space runway space
and check-in areas parachute repacking
no that's not part of anything planes
departing from the airport pay in a
different way as the airport charges
them per passenger this price depends
heavily on where passengers are going
and whether they're taking a flight
going a longer or shorter distance for
airlines that send copious amounts of
flights in and out of airports there are
often special arrangements and fixed
fees for their arrivals and departures
as commercial airports like Heathrow
charge more for flights flying out over
longer distances they don't offer a
whole lot of domestic flights otherwise
they wouldn't make as much money
that being said passengers pay more for
these tickets than they would to fly to
other smaller airports it's all about
that money honey
but not all airports are run this way in
the US the majority of airports are
completely or partially run by the
government so they don't have as much of
a focus on money but don't worry plenty
of these airports have sneaky ways of
making a buck as well so if flights have
to pay so much money to land into part
where are they getting it from the
answer ah ancillary fees or in flight
fees as if the baggage fees weren't
enough passengers also face a wide array
of fees once they're on their flight
movies meals and drinks as of late
passengers have been able to log on to a
Wi-Fi network while gliding through the
air because well who can live for more
than an hour without checking their
Instagram feed right with a lot of
people traveling for work and needing to
use their computers having Wi-Fi on a
plane becomes a necessity baggage fees
if you've traveled via airplane in the
last few years you're all too familiar
with baggage fees while many airlines
allow you one carry-on item for free
you'll likely be prompted to pay
twenty-five to fifty dollars for stowed
luggage that weighs under fifty pounds
and if your bag weighs more than that
well you'll be asked to fork up even
more money these fees really add up over
a year according to a recent study by
consulting firm idea Works company and
car trawler a whopping 57 million
dollars in fees was made by US airlines
in 2017
that same year eighty two billion
dollars was made in baggage fees on a
global level well I think I paid about
half of that while both government and
privately owned airports are making a
nice chunk of change you may feel like
you're going broke ticket prices have
reached an all-time high with all the
fees and so on and go into traveling
flying on planes isn't all that much fun
anymore if you're looking to save a bit
of money during your travels here are
some tips one bring your own pillow on
most flights blankets and pillows cost
extra unless of course you're in first
class you lucky dog bring an extra
fluffy jacket to serve as a pillow on
the flight so you don't have to buy one
that you'll end up returning at the end
of the fly to pack a snack buying meals
on the plane and in the airport can be
quite costly why pay more when you're
not even on vacation yet so as long as
it's within the airport security
requirements pack a sandwich or snack to
save yourself that extra 20 bucks 3
download a movie on your computer in
flight entertainment can cost you some
airlines offered for free but you'll
usually have to pay for movies or cable
TV instead download a movie or two from
Netflix onto your computer before you
leave now you'll have your very own
entertainment system but don't blame us
when you're nosy neighbor tries to watch
over your shoulder but hey if he does
instead of getting mad try offering him
one of your earbuds and charge them five
bucks or so to watch the movie with you
just saying so if you think airports
charge vendors and airlines too much
money can you think of a better solution
tell us your thoughts in the comment
section we'd love to hear them don't
forget to give this video a like share
with your friends and click Subscribe
stay on the bright side
[Music]